Evaluation for SharePad Text Editor

Goal For Product: A fun and cheerful online text editor which allows multiple users on seperate
browsers to simultaneously edit and talk about a piece of group work. Feels accessible and enjoyable,
suitable and inviting for use by all ages. Includes various additional features designed to highlight
the programs fun loving nature, such as an emoji bar, scribble features, speech bubble notes and a chat
function to allow editors to talk about the work on the same page.

Using Summative Evaluation as topic too broad for Formal Experimental Method

CRITERIA FOR EVALUTION

Satisfaction:
	1.	Do Users find colour scheme fun and inviting?
	2.	Does the Emoji Bar make the site feel more fun?
	3.	Does the Scribble Feature make the site feel more fun?
	4.	Does the Chat Box make the site feel more fun?
	5.	Would you use the system for writing documents with others? Alone?
	6.  Do Users find the site layout (toolbar, page, header) easy to understand?
	7.	Is the Draggable Toolbar a useful feature?
	8.	Is the site visually appealing?
	9.	Are the export options useful?
	10.	Is the feature selection adequate/welcome?
	11. Is the Login Screen inviting and easy to understand?
	12. Is it easy to share a session?

Efficiency:
	1.	How quickly can a create a new document?
	2.	How quickly can a sentence be typed into the editor?
	3.	How quickly does the user transition between chat and document?
	4.	How quickly can the user find a specific feature on the toolbar?
	5.	How quickly can a user share their document to another?
	6.	How quickly can the user use a function on the top bar?

Effectiveness:
	1.	How accurate are Users when trying to set up a new document?
	2.	How accurately can users find the right function on a toolbar?
	3.	How easy is it to share document?
	4.	How easy is it to sign into a shared document with a password?
	5.	How easy is it to find and use the chat windows?
	6.	How easy is it to find and add a Bubble Comment?
	7.	How many misdirections for somebody to find Export as PDF feature?
	8.	How intuitive is the Scribble feature to use and then turn off?
	9.	How effective is the sites name in communicating its function?

Should use a comparison system for evaluation of the more generic functionality, as well as
satisfaction through look and feel. Cannot directly compare some of the more unique features
but can compare satisfaction of features provided.

Possible comparisons:
http://www.writeurl.com/
http://collabedit.com/  <- This seems the closest comparison for features
https://write-box.appspot.com/

Most online alternatives have a focus on minimalism, so a focus on cheerful fun
is actually carving a not-too-worn groove.



DEFINE TASKS TO TEST CRITERIA

Task(s) below should be performed on our editor and its comparison

Task 1
Create a new Document. Type in one sentence, containing one italic word and one bold word. 
Move to chat window and type 'Hello'.
Type in second sentence in a new font and size.
Export document as a PDF.

Task(s) below should only be conducted on our editor (due to unique features)

Task 2
Open a new Document
Share the session with password protection

Task 3
Join a existing session with a password.
Leave a note at the end of the first Sentence saying "Hello" and 1 emoji.
Upload the picture on the Desktop to the Document.
Scribble on the page.

After three tasks, ask a short questionnaire:



QUESTIONNAIRE

Scale 1-2-3-4-5: 
1: Do not Agree at all, 5: Agree Utterly

Q1: 
The interface was friendly and inviting.

Q2:
The site has a good range of tools/features.

Q3:
Some of features available were fun and cheerful.

Q4:
The name of the site fits the site itself.

Q5:
I would use this site to write documents by myself.

Q6:
I would use this site to write documents with friends or colleagues.

Any Comments:


DATA / DEPENDANT FACTORS

Tasks
for each stage:
	count each missclick or misnavigation
	count each show of frustration 
	count each show of enjoyment/satisfaction
	time the stage

For Task 1 contrast all stats with rival text editor.
	
Questionnaire
Chart how often 1-5 is chosen for each question.

Comments
Summarise comments into key phrases, categorize by subject, be it general or a feature.








	



